Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about %s
format specifier and string.
So consider a sring hello. Now to print the string
We can use the %s format specifier
in printf function
It will print the string from the given starting address
to the null character. And we have learned that string
name itself holds the starting address of the string. So we
can simply give the string name and it will print
the entire string
So let us see a simple programme to understand
this. So we have string str equal to hello. Now
in printf function we print str using %s format
Specifier. So it will print h e l l o and stop
since the next character is the null character
Now what if we print str+1 using %s?
Then it will consider str +1 as
the starting of the string and will begin printing characters
from there until a null character is encountered
So here str + 1
means the string address is moved by one byte which
is the address of this second character
So it will print e l l o.
Now let us see an interesting programme
Here we have a string str equal to Hello. Now
we are declaring an integer variable i and we have
a for loop. for i equal to zero and condition is
str[i] that is it must not be null
character and i++ at the increment part
So in the first iteration we are printing string with base
address str + zero. So it will print the whole
string h e l l o. Now i is incremented and
str[i] = e so it will print the string from
str +1  So it will print e l l o
Now i is incremented and str[2] equal to l
So again condition is true So print string from str+2
and it will be printing l l o. Now i is incremented
again and becomes 3 and str[i] equal to l
So it will print string from str+3
that is l o. Now i is incremented and becomes 4
in the fourth iteration it will print string from str+4
that is just 'o'. Now increment i and it
becomes 5. Now str[5] equal to null
character. So the condition fails and the control comes out
of the for loop.
So that's all and thank you for watching this video